Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation
Support the Guardian
Fund independent journalism with $15 per month
Support us
Print subscriptions
Search jobs
Sign in
Int
The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian

News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Show more
US
US elections 2024
World
Environment
Ukraine
Soccer
Business
Tech
Science
Newsletters
Wellness
a person holds a sign that reads 'stop project 2025 protect abortion rights'
View image in fullscreen
People protest Donald Trump and Project 2025 outside Trump Tower in New York, on 11 September 2024. Photograph: Gina M Randazzo/ZUMA Press Wire/REX/Shutterstock
US elections 2024
Harris to condemn Trump in Georgia after news of abortion-related deaths
Vice-president to speak after news broke that two women died after being unable to access procedure legally in state

Carter Sherman
Fri 20 Sep 2024 11.00 BST
Share
Kamala Harris will give remarks on Friday in the Atlanta area about Donald Trump’s role in the abortion bans that now blanket much of the United States, days after news broke that two Georgia mothers died after being unable to access legal abortions and adequate medical care.

In the weeks since becoming the Democratic nominee for president, Harris has made reproductive rights a central part of her campaign. She has toured the country to highlight the healthcare consequences of the 2022 overturning of Roe v Wade, which paved the way for more than a dozen states to ban almost all abortions.

Harris has blamed the former president for Roe’s demise because Trump appointed three of the supreme court justices who overturned the landmark decision. Her campaign has also slammed Republicans for repeatedly blocking Senate bills that would have guaranteed a federal right to in vitro fertilization, a popular fertility treatment that had its future cast into doubt after Roe’s overturning.

US map of the state abortion laws
Tracking abortion laws across the United States
Read more
The deaths of the Georgia mothers, Amber Nicole Thurman and Candi Miller, were first reported earlier this week by ProPublica and occurred as a result of Georgia enacting a six-week abortion ban. Georgia’s maternal mortality review committee looked at both women’s cases and deemed their deaths “preventable”, according to ProPublica.

Although Georgia permits abortions in medical emergencies, doctors across the country have said that abortion exceptions are worded so vaguely as to be unworkable. Instead, doctors have said, they are forced to watch until patients get sick enough to legally intervene.

After Thurman took abortion pills to end a pregnancy in 2022, her body failed to expel all of the fetal tissue – a rare but potentially devastating complication, according to ProPublica. Doctors delayed giving the 28-year-old a routine procedure for 20 hours, and she developed sepsis. Her heart stopped during an emergency surgery.

“This young mother should be alive, raising her son and pursuing her dream of attending nursing school,” Harris said in a statement about Thurman earlier this week. “This is exactly what we feared when Roe was struck down.”

skip past newsletter promotion
Sign up to The Stakes — US Election Edition

Free newsletter
The Guardian guides you through the chaos of a hugely consequential presidential election

Enter your email address
Sign up
Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
after newsletter promotion
The gravesite of Amber Thurman
Harris blames Trump for Georgia abortion-related death: ‘It’s what we feared’
Read more
Harris added: “These are the consequences of Donald Trump’s actions.”

While on the campaign trail, Trump has alternated between bragging about helping to demolish Roe, complaining about how Republicans’ hardline anti-abortion stances have cost the Republican elections, and flip-flopping on his own position on the procedure.

Access to abortion has become one of voters’ top issues over the last two years, and Democrats are hoping that outrage over Roe will propel them to victory at the ballot box this November. Ten states, including the key battleground states of Nevada and Arizona, are set to hold abortion-related ballot measures, which could boost turnout among Democrats’ base.

Explore more on these topics
US elections 2024
Abortion
Reproductive rights
Kamala Harris
Donald Trump
Roe v Wade
Women
news
Share
Reuse this content
Most viewed

LiveMiddle East crisis live: top Hezbollah commander reportedly killed in Israeli airstrikes on Beirut

Chess: India win every match at Olympiad as US and England trail

Girls Will Be Girls review – sexual awakening in Indian boarding school is poised and plausible

Time for a noodle tax?: Doctor who sounded alarm on ultra-processed food urges tougher action

Revealed: Russia anticipated Kursk incursion months in advance, seized papers show
Most viewed
USUS elections 2024WorldEnvironmentUkraineSoccerBusinessTechScienceNewslettersWellness
News
Opinion
Sport
Culture
Lifestyle
Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning
Sign up for our email
Help
Complaints & corrections
SecureDrop
Work for us
 
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Terms & conditions
Contact us
All topics
All writers
Digital newspaper archive
Tax strategy
Facebook
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
X
Newsletters
Advertise with us
Search UK jobs
Back to top
© 2024 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)
