
Skip to contentSkip to site indexSection Navigation
SEARCH
SUBSCRIBE FOR $0.25/WEEK
Log in

Updates
Poll Tracker
Polls Find Harris-Trump Deadlock
New Polls’ Unexpected Result
Trump’s Prosecution Threats
Harris Had Stronger Debate, Polls Find, but the Race Remains Deadlocked
Kamala Harris holds an edge over Donald J. Trump in the battleground state of Pennsylvania. But new surveys found that the race remains a tossup nationally.



New


Listen to articles

Tap the Play button at the top of any article to hear it read aloud.

Listen to this article · 12:47 min Learn more
Share full article


1.5k
The New York Times

Philadelphia Inquirer

Siena College Poll

Sept. 11 to 16

If the 2024 presidential election were held today, who would you vote for if the candidates were Kamala Harris and Donald Trump?

National

Harris 47%
Trump 47%

Pennsylvania

42
44
46
48
50
52
54
50
46
Among likely voters. Shaded areas represent margins of error.

Harris Had Stronger Debate, Polls Find, but the Race Remains Deadlocked - The New York Times
For the national poll, the margin of error is plus or minus 3 points. For the Pennsylvania poll, it is plus or minus 3.8 points.By Lily Boyce and Andrew Park
Shane GoldmacherRuth Igielnik
By Shane Goldmacher and Ruth Igielnik
Published Sept. 19, 2024
Updated Sept. 20, 2024, 10:14 a.m. ET
Sign up for the Tilt newsletter, for Times subscribers only.  Nate Cohn, The Times’s chief political analyst, makes sense of the latest political data. Try it for 4 weeks.
Follow live updates on the 2024 election here.

Kamala Harris overwhelmingly impressed voters in her debate with Donald J. Trump, a new set of polls from The New York Times, The Philadelphia Inquirer and Siena College found, but she has failed so far to seize a decisive advantage in the presidential campaign.

The race is deadlocked nationally. Yet in the critical battleground state of Pennsylvania, Ms. Harris has a lead of four percentage points — a slight edge that is unchanged since early August. She has reassembled much of the core Democratic coalition in the state, winning the support of Black voters, younger voters and women there.

[Combined, the two polls are a bit of a puzzle, Nate Cohn writes.]

The vice president received far stronger reviews of her debate performance last week than did Mr. Trump, with 67 percent of U.S. likely voters saying she did well compared with 40 percent for him. A majority of voters in every racial group, age bracket and education level — even white voters without a college degree, who are typically the former president’s most loyal demographic — gave her a positive review.

The New York Times

Philadelphia Inquirer

Siena College Poll

Sept. 11 to 16

How well do you think Kamala Harris did in the presidential debate?

All respondents
Well
67%
Not well
29
Democrats
96%
2
Independents
68%
25
Republicans
38%
59
How well do you think Donald Trump did in the presidential debate?

All respondents
Well
40%
Not well
56
Democrats
5%
92
Independents
39%
55
Republicans
77%
21
Harris Had Stronger Debate, Polls Find, but the Race Remains Deadlocked - The New York Times
Results are among likely voters who watched or heard about the debate. “Well” includes the responses “very well” and “somewhat well,” and “not well” includes the responses “not too well” and “not well at all.” The unlabeled segment refers to the share of voters who did not respond or who said they didn’t know.Based on a New York Times/Philadelphia Inquirer/Siena College poll of 2,437 voters nationwide conducted from Sept. 11 to 16.By Lily Boyce
But even that was not enough to jostle a race that appears destined to become a battle of inches this fall, after a summer of tumult and upheaval.

Nationally, Mr. Trump and Ms. Harris are knotted at 47 percent. In Pennsylvania, Ms. Harris leads, 50 percent to 46 percent. The surveys were conducted almost entirely before the second apparent assassination attempt against Mr. Trump last Sunday.

[Follow the latest polls and see updated polling averages of the Harris vs. Trump matchup.]

The first 2024 general election debate, between Mr. Trump and President Biden in June, upended the race, with Democrats so thoroughly losing faith in Mr. Biden’s ability at the age of 81 to campaign and serve a second term that the party switched candidates.

The new polls show how quickly Democrats consolidated behind Ms. Harris and eliminated what had once appeared to be a daunting enthusiasm gap.

But Ms. Harris still has some critical vulnerabilities heading into the fall, most notably that far more voters see her as too liberal than view Mr. Trump as too conservative.

Editors’ Picks

My Grandniece Was Thrown Out of Her House for Being Gay. What Can I Do?

An Art Installation She Called Home on the Upper East Side

I Sang at Hundreds of Funerals. This Is What I Learned About Grief.
The share of voters who said they still wanted to learn more about Ms. Harris was nearly identical, both before and after the debate, suggesting that she might have missed an opportunity to address doubts or provide more details to the public.

What questions were asked? Who answers polls?The New York Times/Siena College Poll has earned a reputation for accuracy and transparency. Our pollsters and editors are committed to explaining our methods and answering common questions. Read our Q. and A. and explore the full results of the polls:
You Ask, We Answer: How The Times/Siena Poll Is Conducted
Cross-Tabs: September 2024 Times/Siena Poll of the Likely Electorate
“I wanted to see how she would answer questions at the debate, but I feel like she didn’t really answer any of the questions; she kind of just deflected,” said Tyler Slabaugh, 24, who works in medical sales and lives in Grand Haven, Mich. He didn’t vote in 2020 but plans on supporting Mr. Trump this year. “I didn’t really get a good understanding of, like, what her plan was,” he said of Ms. Harris.

Concerns about the state of the economy remain widespread. In Pennsylvania, 77 percent of likely voters said the economy was poor or fair, with only 22 percent calling it excellent or good. That negative view held true even in key Democratic regions, including Philadelphia and its surrounding suburbs.

Mr. Trump has his own challenges, including among the college-educated white voters who populate such suburbs. His support among that group has sunk to 36 percent both nationally and in Pennsylvania. In 2020, he won 42 percent of this group, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of verified 2020 voters.

“He continues to just fly off the rails and ramble, which, again, is not something that I look for in the leader of the free world,” said Paul Irwin-Dudek, 47, a nonprofit executive in Nutley, N.J., who is supporting Ms. Harris. “She was able to command the room,” he said of the debate.

The fact that Ms. Harris was stronger in Pennsylvania than she was nationally is surprising. It has been among the most contested states since 2016 and has generally trended more Republican than the nation has overall.

But in 2024, Democrats — first with Mr. Biden and now Ms. Harris — have showed relative strength with white voters, and the Pennsylvania electorate is whiter than the nation overall.

Ms. Harris was winning 46 percent of white voters in Pennsylvania in the new set of polls. In 2020, Mr. Biden won 43 percent of white voters nationally; Hillary Clinton received just 39 percent support from the group in 2016.

The new polls are in line with other surveys, which show Ms. Harris’s favorability rating rising in the state. Only 42 percent of  voters had rated her favorably in Pennsylvania in early July; now that figure stands at 51 percent — a remarkable improvement. Pennsylvanians have been bombarded by heavy advertising both for and against Ms. Harris ever since her entrance into the race on July 21.

How the polls compare
National	Pa.
Times/Inquirer/Siena
Likely voters

Sept. 11–16

Even	Harris +4
Polling average
As of 5 a.m. Sept. 19

Harris +3	Harris +2
Fox News/Beacon & Shaw
Likely voters

Sept. 13–16

Harris +2	No poll
Ipsos/ABC News
Likely voters

Sept. 11–13

Harris +6	No poll
AtlasIntel
Likely voters

Sept. 11–12

Trump +3	No poll
Ipsos/Reuters
Registered voters

Sept. 11–12

Harris +5	No poll
Marist College
Likely voters

Sept. 12–17

No poll	Even
Quinnipiac University
Likely voters

Sept. 12–16

No poll	Harris +5
Suffolk University/USA Today
Likely voters

Sept. 11–14

No poll	Harris +3
Notes: Margins are calculated using unrounded vote shares when available. The Times’s polling average is as of 5 a.m. Eastern on Sept. 19.By Lily Boyce and Andrew Park
Views of Mr. Trump have also brightened, with 47 percent seeing him favorably nationally. That is higher than earlier this year, even when he was leading Mr. Biden.

Keep Up With the 2024 Election
The presidential election is 46 days away. Here’s our guide to the run-up to Election Day.


Tracking the Polls. The state of the race, according to the latest polling data.

Map highlighting the most competitive states and districts in the presidential race.
Swing State Ratings. The presidential race is likely to be decided by these states.


Key Issues. Here’s where Kamala Harris and Donald Trump stand.

A calendar showing key dates and voting deadlines for the 2024 presidential election.
Election Calendar. Take a look at key dates and voting deadlines.


Career Timelines. See how the presidential and V.P. candidates got here.


On Politics Newsletter. Get the latest news and analysis on the 2024 election sent to your inbox. Sign up here.
A similar share — 48 percent — had a favorable view of Ms. Harris nationally.

The debate was viewed live by more than 67 million Americans, making it the year’s most watched broadcast outside of the Super Bowl. Ms. Harris fared strongest among the 80 percent of voters who said they had either watched that night or seen clips afterward, winning among those voters. Mr. Trump was winning a majority of the far smaller share who had either only heard about the debate, or had not heard anything about it at all.

The two candidates laid out widely divergent visions. But the durability of the divide in America on policy was clear in the poll.

The share of voters who favor Mr. Trump on the economy (54 percent) and immigration (54 percent) was within a percentage point of where it had stood before the debate.

“I really don’t feel like she did anything with the border when she was a vice president, I felt like it was a laughing joke,” said Mitchell Wallace, a 33-year-old wastewater technician in Englewood, Fla. He is an independent who voted for Mr. Trump in 2020 and plans to do so again, calling him the “lesser of two evils.”

The shares of voters who trust Ms. Harris more on abortion (also 54 percent) and preserving democracy (50 percent) were unchanged after the debate, too.

Black voters were the most enthusiastic about Ms. Harris’s debate performance, with 87 percent saying she had done well — a higher percentage than the share of Black voters who said they were voting for her.

Among crucial independent voters, Mr. Trump’s debate was received poorly, with only 8 percent nationally and 4 percent in Pennsylvania saying he did very well. In the state, 65 percent of independent voters said Ms. Harris did well, compared with 30 percent who said the same of Mr. Trump.

“She knows what the struggles of me and people like myself go through,” said Alexis Cobbs, 54, a dialysis technician and a Democrat living in Philadelphia. “Unlike Donald Trump, who’s never actually had to truly work-work a day in his life.”

Mr. Trump and his allies have railed against the two ABC News moderators, David Muir and Linsey Davis, but a majority of voters thought they were fair, though 79 percent of Republicans disagreed.

How polls have changed since the debate
National	Margin
Pre-Debate	Margin
Post-Debate
Times/Inquirer/Siena
Among likely voters nationwide	Trump +2	Even
Polling average
Among all recent national polls	Harris +3	Harris +3
Pennsylvania	Margin
Pre-Debate	Margin
Post-Debate
Times/Inquirer/Siena
Among likely voters in Pennsylvania	Harris +4	Harris +4
Polling average
Among all recent Pennsylvania polls	Harris <1	Harris +2
Harris Had Stronger Debate, Polls Find, but the Race Remains Deadlocked - The New York Times
Notes: Margins are calculated using unrounded vote shares when available. The Times’s polling average is as of 5 a.m. Eastern on Sept. 19.By Lily Boyce
One of Ms. Harris’s key tasks in the debate was to introduce herself to the sizable share of the electorate who felt they needed to learn more about her. About half of debate watchers, including nearly half of independent voters, said they had learned a lot, or some, about Ms. Harris during the debate.

But there has been little movement, with 25 percent of voters still saying they feel they need to learn more about her, down just a few percentage points.

The debate may have solidified some voters’ concerns that Mr. Trump is just a typical Washington politician. The share of voters who said he represents “more of the same” ticked up slightly.

Still, more voters consistently see Mr. Trump as the change candidate. But it is not clear that they like the kind of change he promises to usher in.

A narrow 51 percent majority said he would “bring about the right kind of change” compared with 49 percent for Ms. Harris — a virtual tie that amounts to a political victory for the incumbent party at a moment of such widespread dissatisfaction.

Mr. Trump got higher marks than Ms. Harris for saying what he believes, and being respected by foreign leaders.

Ms. Harris widened the gap with Mr. Trump on intelligence. In August, Pennsylvania voters were 10 percentage points more likely to say “intelligent” described Ms. Harris “well” as compared with Mr. Trump. After the debate, that gap is now 18 percentage points.

The polls underscore a sharp contrast in the ways voters view the two candidates. Mr. Trump took the title as the more “extreme” candidate, 74 percent versus 46 percent.

Yet being extreme was not viewed negatively by many voters. In fact, Mr. Trump won the group of voters who said “extreme” described him “somewhat well” by more than 50 percentage points.

The overall results looked much the same when third-party candidates were included in the survey, with Mr. Trump and Ms. Harris tied at 46 percent nationally, and Ms. Harris leading by four percentage points in Pennsylvania.

Ms. Harris has made gains in that state with college-educated voters, increasingly a Democratic stronghold. In particular, she has improved her standing among college-educated nonwhite voters, a small but crucial sliver of the state.

Her support among Black voters in Pennsylvania has ticked up steadily since she joined the race. And in Philadelphia, her support among Black voters is at nearly 90 percent, matching some of the strength that Mr. Biden showed with the group in 2020.

Pennsylvania is also home to one of this year’s most hotly contested Senate races. Senator Bob Casey, the incumbent Democrat, continues to hold a sizable lead over his Republican challenger, David McCormick. Mr. McCormick has closed the gap slightly since August, from being down 14 percentage points to nine.

Mr. McCormick is still running behind Mr. Trump in the state, though the number of ticket splitters — voters who were planning to support Mr. Casey and Mr. Trump — has been cut in half, from 4 percent to 2.

Camille Baker and Christine Zhang contributed reporting.

Here are the key things to know about these polls:
Interviewers spoke with 2,437 likely voters from Sept. 11 to 16, 2024.

Times/Siena polls are conducted by telephone, using live interviewers, in both English and Spanish. Overall, about 96 percent of respondents were contacted on a cellphone for these polls. You can see the exact questions that were asked and the order in which they were asked here.

Voters are selected for the survey from a list of registered voters. The list contains information on the demographic characteristics of every registered voter, allowing us to make sure we reach the right number of voters of each party, race and region. For this poll, interviewers placed more than 240,000 calls to nearly 118,000 voters.

To further ensure that the results reflect the entire voting population, not just those willing to take a poll, we give more weight to respondents from demographic groups that are underrepresented among survey respondents, like people without a college degree. You can see more information about the characteristics of respondents and the weighted sample at the bottom of the results and methodology page, under “Composition of the Sample.”

The national poll’s margin of sampling error among likely voters is plus or minus 3 percentage points. The Pennsylvania poll’s margin of error among likely voters is plus or minus 3.8 percentage points. In theory, this means that the results should reflect the views of the overall population most of the time, though many other challenges create additional sources of error. When computing the difference between two values — such as a candidate’s lead in a race — the margin of error is twice as large.

You can see full results and a detailed methodology here. If you want to read more about how and why The Times/Siena Poll is conducted, you can see answers to frequently asked questions and submit your own questions here.

The New York Times/Philadelphia Inquirer/Siena College poll of Pennsylvania was funded by a grant from The Lenfest Institute for Journalism. The poll was designed and conducted independently from the institute.

Shane Goldmacher is a national political correspondent, covering the 2024 campaign and the major developments, trends and forces shaping American politics. He can be reached at shane.goldmacher@nytimes.com. More about Shane Goldmacher

Ruth Igielnik is a Times polling editor who conducts polls and analyzes and reports on the results. More about Ruth Igielnik

A version of this article appears in print on Sept. 20, 2024, Section A, Page 14 of the New York edition with the headline: Debate Night Barely Moved Needle in Polls. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
See more on: 2024 Elections: News, Polls and Analysis, Kamala Harris, Donald Trump
Read 1523 Comments
Share full article


1.5k
Site Index
Site Information Navigation
© 2024 The New York Times Company
NYTCoContact UsAccessibilityWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioYour Ad ChoicesPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapHelpSubscriptions